Kali Linux VM Installtion

Installing Kali Linux on VirtualBox is a straightforward process that allows you to run Kali in a virtualized environment. Follow these steps to set it up:

Step 1: Download Required Files

Download and install the latest version of VirtualBox from the official website.

Download the Kali Linux ISO file from the Kali Linux website.

Step 2: Create a New Virtual Machine

Open VirtualBox and click New.

Enter a name (e.g., "Kali Linux 2025"), set the type to Linux, and version to Debian (64-bit).

Allocate at least 2GB of RAM (2048 MB) or more for better performance.

Select Create a virtual hard disk now and choose VDI (VirtualBox Disk Image).

Set the storage type to Dynamically allocated and allocate at least 80GB of disk space.

Step 3: Configure the Virtual Machine

Go to Settings for the newly created VM: In General > Advanced, enable Shared Clipboard and Drag’n’Drop as bidirectional. In System > Motherboard, set the boot order to prioritize Hard Disk over Optical Disk. In System > Processor, allocate at least 2 processors and enable PAE/NX. In Display > Screen, set video memory to 128 MB and disable 3D acceleration.

Under Storage, attach the downloaded Kali ISO as a virtual optical disk.

Step 4: Install Kali Linux

Start the VM and select the attached ISO as the startup disk.

Follow the on-screen installation wizard: Choose graphical installation. Configure language, keyboard, and network settings. Partition the virtual disk (use guided partitioning for simplicity).

Complete the installation, reboot, and remove the ISO when prompted.

Step 5: Post-Installation Setup

During installation, VirtualBox Guest Additions may be automatically installed for better performance. If not, install them manually using:

sudo apt update
sudo apt install virtualbox-guest-x11
Copy
Your Kali Linux VM is now ready to use!


Installing Metasploitable in VirtualBox

Metasploitable is an intentionally vulnerable Linux virtual machine designed for penetration testing and security training. Below are the steps to set it up in VirtualBox.

Step 1: Download Metasploitable

Visit the Metasploitable project page and download the latest ZIP file containing the .vmdk (virtual hard disk) file.

Step 2: Extract the ZIP File

Use tools like WinRAR or any unzip utility to extract the downloaded ZIP file. This will provide a .vmdk file.

Step 3: Create a New Virtual Machine

Open VirtualBox and click on New to create a new virtual machine.

Provide the following details: Name: Any name of your choice (e.g., Metasploitable). Type: Linux. Version: Other (64-bit).

Allocate at least 512 MB of RAM (recommended).

Step 4: Attach the Virtual Hard Disk

In the hard disk section, select Use an existing virtual hard disk file.

Browse to the extracted .vmdk file and select it.

Click Create to finalize the VM setup.

Step 5: Start the Virtual Machine

Select your newly created VM and click Start.

Once booted, log in using the default credentials: Username: msfadmin Password: msfadmin


Installing Ubuntu in VirtualBox

Running Ubuntu inside VirtualBox allows you to explore Linux without altering your main operating system. This setup is ideal for testing, development, or learning in a safe environment.

Download Required Software

VirtualBox: Get the latest version from the official VirtualBox website and install it on your host OS (Windows, macOS, or Linux) .

Ubuntu ISO: Download the latest LTS version from the Ubuntu website for stability .

Create a New Virtual Machine

Launch VirtualBox and click New.

Name & Type: Enter a name (e.g., "Ubuntu VM"), select Linux as type, and Ubuntu (64-bit) as version.

Allocate RAM: Minimum 2 GB (2048 MB), preferably 4 GB for smoother performance.

Create Virtual Hard Disk: Type: VDI (VirtualBox Disk Image) Storage: Dynamically allocated Size: At least 25 GB ^2^.

Configure VM Settings

System: Uncheck Floppy in boot order, allocate 2 CPUs if possible.

Display: Set Video Memory to 128 MB.

Storage: Attach the downloaded Ubuntu ISO to the optical drive .




Install Ubuntu

Start the VM and choose Install Ubuntu.

Select language, keyboard layout, and installation type (Normal Installation recommended).

Proceed with default partitioning (safe inside VM).

Set username and password, then wait for installation to complete.

Reboot when prompted.

Post-Installation Enhancements

Install Guest Additions for better resolution and shared clipboard:

sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade
sudo apt install build-essential dkms linux-headers-$(uname -r)
sudo ./VBoxLinuxAdditions.run
sudo reboot

Enable shared folders via VirtualBox settings for file exchange between host and VM.



